---
layout: post
title: A paper was accepted at the Workshop on Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) at IJCAI 2024
date: 2024-06-04 16:11:00-0400
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

“XGeoS-AI: An Interpretable Learning Framework for Deciphering Geoscience Image Segmentation” 已被 IJCAI 2024 可解释人工智能 (XAI) 研讨会接受，该研讨会在 [XAI-2024](https://sites.google.com/view/xai2024/proceedings) 中展示。
---

[XGeoS-AI: An Interpretable Learning Framework for Deciphering Geoscience  Image Segmentation](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iS6gLSeaChl4dmrQKQGNJKyW-pGwXXq3/view?usp=sharing)
Jin-Jian Xu, Hao Zhang, Chao-Sheng Tang, Lin Li, Dian-Long Wang, Bo Liu, Bin Shi

> As Earth science enters the era of big data, artificial intelligence (AI) not only offers great potential for solving geoscience problems, but also plays a critical role in accelerating the understanding of the complex, interactive, and multiscale processes of Earth's behavior. As geoscience AI models are progressively utilized for significant predictions in crucial situations, geoscience researchers are increasingly demanding their interpretability and versatility. This study proposes an interpretable geoscience artificial intelligence (XGeoS-AI) framework to unravel the mystery of image recognition in the Earth sciences, and its effectiveness and versatility is demonstrated by taking computed tomography (CT) image recognition as an example. Inspired by the mechanism of human vision, the proposed XGeoS-AI framework generates a threshold value from a local region within the whole image to complete the recognition. Different kinds of artificial intelligence (AI) methods, such as Support Vector Regression (SVR), Multilayer Perceptron (MLP), Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), can be adopted as the AI engines of the proposed XGeoS-AI framework to efficiently complete geoscience image recognition tasks. Experimental results demonstrate that the effectiveness, versatility, and heuristics of the proposed framework have great potential in solving geoscience image recognition problems. Interpretable AI should receive more and more attention in the field of the Earth sciences, which is the key to promoting more rational and wider applications of AI in the field of Earth sciences. In addition, the proposed interpretable framework may be the forerunner of technological innovation in the Earth sciences.

#### Hipster list

<ul>
    <li>brunch</li>
    <li>fixie</li>
    <li>raybans</li>
    <li>messenger bag</li>
</ul>

Hoodie Thundercats retro, tote bag 8-bit Godard craft beer gastropub. Truffaut Tumblr taxidermy, raw denim Kickstarter sartorial dreamcatcher. Quinoa chambray slow-carb salvia readymade, bicycle rights 90's yr typewriter selfies letterpress cardigan vegan.

---

Pug heirloom High Life vinyl swag, single-origin coffee four dollar toast taxidermy reprehenderit fap distillery master cleanse locavore. Est anim sapiente leggings Brooklyn ea. Thundercats locavore excepteur veniam eiusmod. Raw denim Truffaut Schlitz, migas sapiente Portland VHS twee Bushwick Marfa typewriter retro id keytar.



Fap aliqua qui, scenester pug Echo Park polaroid irony shabby chic ex cardigan church-key Odd Future accusamus. Blog stumptown sartorial squid, gastropub duis aesthetic Truffaut vero. Pinterest tilde twee, odio mumblecore jean shorts lumbersexual.
